Added VSCode extension docs (#389)
metalbear-co/mirrord.dev: content/docs/using-mirrord/vscode-extension/index.md

---
title: "VSCode Extension"
description: "Using the mirrord extension in Visual Studio Code"
date: 2025-01-07T00:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2025-01-07T00:00:00+00:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "using-mirrord"
weight: 165
toc: true
tags: ["open source", "team", "enterprise"]
---

If you develop your application in Visual Studio Code, you can debug it with mirrord using our Visual Studio Marketplace [extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MetalBear.mirrord). Simply:
1. Download the extension
2. Enable mirrord using the "mirrord" button on the bottom toolbar
{{<figure src="images/enabler.png" alt="mirrord button">}}

> 3. Run or debug your application as you usually do

Reviewer: I wonder if there is some value in adding a gif showing this.

Author: I wanted to, but I discovered a severe skill issue. Produced GIFs look very bad :laughing: 
Pixelated and with weird color palette

> When you start a debugging session with mirrord enabled, you'll be prompted with a target selection quickpick.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you start a debugging session with mirrord enabled, you'll be prompted with a target selection quick-pick.
```

I think it can be either hyphenated or separated, but not a single word.

Author: Ah yeah, should be separated. Thanks

> This quickpick will allow you to select the target in your Kubernetes cluster that you want to impersonate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This quick-pick will allow you to select the target in your Kubernetes cluster that you want to impersonate.
```

Same here.

> When you start a debugging session with mirrord enabled, you'll be prompted with a target selection quickpick.
> This quickpick will allow you to select the target in your Kubernetes cluster that you want to impersonate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you start a debugging session with mirrord enabled, you'll be prompted with a target selection quick-pick, allowing you to select the target in your Kubernetes cluster that you want to impersonate.
```

There a few too many `you`s here, I think. You could write in a more impersonal way, like `When starting a debugging session with mirrord,  the target selection quick-pick appears, allowing you to choose the Kubernetes target that you want to impersonate.`

Something along those lines.

Author: :cactus:

The toolbar button enables/disables mirrord for all run and debug sessions.

mirrord's initial state on startup can be configured in the settings:
```json
{
    "mirrord.enabledByDefault": true
}

> ```

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/28aade26-6c0b-4e7b-9306-5af4a9a39f08)

Cursed.

Reviewer: But unfixable.

## Enabling/disabling mirrord for a specific launch configuration

> mirrord can be persistently enabled or disabled for a specific launch configuration, regardless of the toolbar button state.
> This is controlled via the `MIRRORD_ACTIVE` environment variable in your launch configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mirrord can be persistently enabled or disabled for a specific launch configuration, regardless of the toolbar button state with the `MIRRORD_ACTIVE` environment variable in your launch configuration.
```

Maybe instead of the next paragraph, you could show it in a json with comments, like:

```json
{
  "env": {
    // mirrord always enabled 
    ... 
    // mirrord always disabled
    // ... 
  }
}
```

Reviewer: vscode json config supports docs, right?

Author: Updated, wdyt?

To have mirrord always enabled for the given launch configuration, set `MIRRORD_ACTIVE=1` in the launch configuration's environment variables.
To have mirrord always disabled, set `MIRRORD_ACTIVE=0`.

> ## Selecting Session Target

Reviewer: Do we want to capitalize stuff like this?

```suggestion
## Selecting session target
```

> mirrord's target can be specified in two ways: with the target selection quickpick or with the mirrord config.
> 
> If the mirrord config does not specify the target, you will be prompted with the quickpick each time you start a new session.
> 
> The quickpick will only show targets in the namespace specified in the mirrord config.
> If the namespace is not specified, your Kubernetes user's default namespace will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mirrord's target can be specified in one of these two ways: 

1. the target selection quick-pick;
  - The quick-pick will only show targets in the namespace specified in the mirrord config.
2. in a mirrord config;
  - If the mirrord config does not specify the target, you will be prompted with the quick-pick each time you start a new session.

If the namespace is not specified, your Kubernetes user's default namespace will be used.
```

Wdyt?

Author: I rephrased to something similar

> ## Using the mirrord Config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the mirrord config
```

> The extension allows for using the [mirrord config](/docs/reference/configuration).
> For any run/debug session, the mirrord config to be used can be specified in multiple ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize your mirrord debugging experience with a [mirrord config](/docs/reference/configuration) file. The active config for any run/debug session may be specified in one of the following ways.
```

Author: :cactus:

> ### Active Config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Active config button
```

> The toolbar dropdown menu allows for specifying a temporary mirrord config override.
> This config will be used for all run/debug sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toolbar drop-down menu allows for specifying a temporary mirrord config override, which will be used for all run/debug sessions.
```

Author: :cactus:

> To specify the override, use `Select active config` action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override, use the `Select active config` action.
```

Author: :cactus:

{{<figure src="images/select-active-config.png" alt="select active config action">}}

> You will be prompted with a quickpick where you can select a mirrord config from your project files.
> For the file to be present in the dialog, it must either be located in a directory which name ends with `.mirrord`,
> or have a name that ends with `mirrord`. Accepted config file extensions are: `json`, `toml`, `yml` and `yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A quick-pick will appear, where you can select a mirrord config from your project files. Keep in mind that the config file must either be located in a directory, which name ends with `.mirrord`, in your project workspace.
Or have a name that ends with `mirrord`, such as `michal-mirrord.json`.

Accepted config file extensions are: `json`, `toml`, `yml` and `yaml`.
```

Author: :cactus:

You can remove the override using the same action.

> ### Config For Run Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Config for run configuration
```

> If no active config is specified, the extension will try to read the config file path from the `MIRRORD_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable specified in the launch configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no active config is specified, the extension tries to read the config file path from the `MIRRORD_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable specified in the launch configuration.
```

I prefer present rather than future.

Author: :cactus:

This path should be absolute.

> ### Config From Default Path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Config from default path
```

> If config file path is not specified in the launch configuration environment, the plugin will try to find a default config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the config file path is not specified in the launch configuration environment, the plugin will try to find a default config.
```

> Default config is the lexicographically first file in `<PROJECT ROOT>/.mirrord` directory that ends with `mirrord`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default config is the lexicographically first file in `<PROJECT ROOT>/.mirrord` directory that ends with `mirrord`.
```

Accepted config file extensions are: `json`, `toml`, `yml` and `yaml`.

> ## Managing the mirrord Binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Managing the mirrord binary
```

The extension relies on the standard mirrord CLI binary.

> By default, the extension checks latest release version and downloads the most up-to-date binary in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the extension checks the latest release version and downloads the most up-to-date binary in the background.
```

Author: Yaay, more *thes*

You can disable this behavior in the settings:
```json
{
  "mirrord.autoUpdate": false
}
```

> You can also pin the binary version in the settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also pin the binary version in the setting:
```

Reviewer: Hmm this is a tough one, I can kinda see where you're coming from with the plural, but it feels wrong when it's a single setting that is being shown.

To understand my point, swap "setting" for "option", doesn't it look weird to say "options" and show only 1 option?

Author: But settings is what I'm showing, right? The JSON object vscode uses

Reviewer: I get where you're coming from, that's why this is a tough one. It's a bit ambiguous, so maybe if you specify that this is vscode settings, then it becomes easy.

Something like this:

```suggestion
You can disable this behavior in the vscode settings with:

```json
{
  "mirrord.autoUpdate": false
}
```

You can also pin the binary version with:

```json
{
  "mirrord.autoUpdate": "3.128.0"
}
```
```

Reviewer: omg the formatting went bananas
